### Hartshorne II.7.10
- $X$ is noetherian scheme, $\mathcal S=\bigoplus_d \mathcal I^d$ is the Rees algebra of a coherent ideal sheaf (this correspond to blow-ups; but in general all we need is a nice quasi-coherent graded $\mathcal O_X$-algebra).
- We constructed the scheme (relative proj) $P:=\mathrm {Proj}(\mathcal S)$ which has a $\pi:P\to X$.
	- The structure sheaf is constructed on affine opens as degree $0$ homogeneous fractions.
- Similarly, we have a sheaf $\mathcal O_P(1)$ on $P$ given locally on affine opens as degree $1$ fractions.
- Proposition. If $\mathcal L$ is an ample invertible sheaf on $X$, then $\mathcal O_P(1)\otimes \mathcal L^n$ is very ample for $n\gg0$.
	- Proof. By definition of ampleness, for $n\gg0$ we have $\mathcal I\otimes\mathcal L^n$ is generated by global sections.
	- Put $L:=\mathcal L^n$ for simplicity.
	- $X$ is Noetherian, so there is a finite number $N$ and a surjective $\mathcal O_X^N \to \mathcal I\otimes L$.
	- At graded algebra level, we get a surjective $\mathcal O_X[T_1,\cdots,T_N] \to \mathcal S*L:=\bigoplus_d \mathcal S_d\otimes L^{d}$.
	- i.e. a closed immersion $P':=\mathrm{Proj}(\mathcal S*L) \to \mathbb P_X^N$. (ex. 3.12)
	- It suffices to observe that $P\simeq P'$ naturally and $\mathcal O_{P'}(1) \simeq \mathcal O_P(1)\otimes \pi'^*L$. (II.7.9)
	- This is because tensoring $\mathcal{S}$ with $L$ locally corresponds to multiplying with a nonzero function $f$ ( viewing $L$ as a Cartier divisor). For the structure sheaf, the numerator and denominator gets the same power of $f$, so $P\simeq P'$. But for $\mathcal{O}(1)$ we have $f^{d+1}/f^d=f$ in total.
	- QED
- ### Kummer surface
- In this case $X=A/\langle\iota\rangle$ where $A$ is an [abelian surface]([[Basics of complex abelian surface]]).
- (ex. II.7.5) Given $X$ a noetherian scheme, if $\mathcal{L}$, $\mathcal{M}$ are ample invertible sheaves, then so is $\mathcal{L\otimes M}$.
- So we can take an ample line bundle $\mathcal L$ on $A$, and consider $\mathcal{M}=\mathcal{L\otimes\iota^* L}$.
- $\mathcal{M}^{\otimes2}$ descends to an ample invertible sheaf on $X$.
	- (ex.3.5.7) Let $X,Y$ be proper schemes over a noetherian ring. Let $f:X\to Y$ be a finite surjective morphism. Let $\mathcal{L}$ be an invertible sheaf on $Y$. Then $\mathcal{L}$ is ample iff $f^*\mathcal{L}$ is ample.
- Now we can apply the above and find a polarization on the Kummer surface $\operatorname{Kum}(A)$.